Make aita blog post (#117)
iterative/blog: content/blog/2020-02-17-a-public-reddit-dataset.md

---
title:
  AITA for making this? A public dataset of Reddit posts about moral dilemmas
date: 2020-02-17
description: |
  Releasing an open natural language dataset based on r/AmItheAsshole.
descriptionLong: |
  Delve into an open natural language dataset of posts about tricky situations from
  r/AmItheAsshole. Use this dataset for whatever you want- we'll show you how to get it and

>   start playing.

Reviewer: tricky situations -> moral dilemmas? For keyword consistency

we'll show -> I'll show? You use I throughout the text below.

Reviewer: Resolved without answer or change?

Author: ah forgot to comment- changed tricky situations => moral dilemmas. Description now reads 
```Use this dataset for whatever you want- here's how to get it and
  start playing.```

Reviewer: Ah sorry it had not changed when I checked. I guess you resolved before pushing. Np thanks

> picture: ../../static/uploads/images/2020-02-17/header.png

Reviewer 2: image looks blurry on the blog post page

Reviewer: How do you see the blog review live?

Reviewer 2: <img width="784" alt="Screen Shot 2020-02-17 at 4 06 36 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3659196/74693212-933b2c00-519f-11ea-88a9-7eb088036a27.png">

Author: @shcheklein hm.... I can't make it much higher resolution since the problem is actually that I can't get larger pictures of the emojis (they don't seem to come in vector graphics, only .png). Any ideas how to get it sharper?

Reviewer 2: you can copy emoji as an unicode symbol from this list - https://unicode.org/emoji/charts/full-emoji-list.html ... just copy paste it as a regular text into text box and make any size you'd like

Author: hmmmm even in a text editor the max resolution seems to be maxed out by the time I get ~300pt font 
<img width="646" alt="Screen Shot 2020-02-17 at 4 27 42 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29716724/74693884-94ba2380-51a2-11ea-9038-ae5f8aee9405.png">

Author: is it possible to make the image a bit smaller in the header?

Reviewer 2: can we find svg/high res pngs in google for those? quite strange problem to have to be honest - no emojis in high res :)

Author: yeah apparently apple doesn't release official .svgs? this is never the problem i expected to have. 
So I tried shrinking the emojis I have down so they don't appear as blurry (also, the background behind the poop emoji is intentionally blurred). I just pushed this commit
<img width="1759" alt="Screen Shot 2020-02-17 at 5 07 37 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29716724/74695240-1b253400-51a8-11ea-9ea5-cff714488338.png">

@shcheklein if you still think this is too blurry I will buy [these cheap .svgs](https://emojiisland.com/products/baby-angel-iphone-emoji-image for). I'm sorta attached to the baby face we have already but I'd be willing to switch

Reviewer 2: buying if possible is a perfect option!

Author: remade with .svgs in the latest push

pictureComment:
author: ../authors/elle_obrien.md
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/dvc-heartbeat-feburary-20/318
tags:
  - Project
  - Data
  - DVC
  - Reddit
---

In data science, we frequently deal with classification problems like, _is this
[Yelp reviewer unhappy](https://www.ics.uci.edu/~vpsaini/) with their brunch? Is
this [email begging me](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/spambase) to

> claim my long-lost inheritance spam? Does this

Reviewer: Minor: I would link `[this email]` in this sentence.

[movie critic](http://ai.stanford.edu/~amaas/data/sentiment/) have a positive

> opinion of [Cats](https://bit.ly/2UXhaSW)?_

Reviewer: Minor: not sure you need to link _Cats_, maybe just italic?

Author: @jorgeorpinel i was worried about the case where a reader doesn't know what it is (is this movie known internationally?) if you think it's safe I'll delete the link

Reviewer: Well you're talking about a movie critic, so it's given from that context 🙂 
Cats is known abroad, yes.

Author: alright goodbye link!

Perhaps we should also consider the fundamental introspective matter of, _am I
maybe being a bit of an asshole?_

I want to share a dataset of collected moral dilemmas shared on Reddit, as well
as the judgments handed down by a jury of Redditors. The wellspring of this data
is the [r/AmItheAsshole](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/) subreddit, one
of the natural wonders of the digital world. In this article, I'll show you
what's in the dataset, how to get it, and some things you can do to move the

> frontiers of Asshole research forwards.

Reviewer: forward

Reviewer: Resolved without answer or change?

Reviewer: I see both are used out there.

## What makes an Asshole?

> r/AmItheAsshole is a semi-structured online forum that’s the internet’s closest

Reviewer: Minor: are we using special quote characters in all blog posts? Which one is correct or easier to type?
```suggestion
r/AmItheAsshole is a semi-structured online forum that's the internet's closest
```

Author: it's easier for me to type the one that's already in there- let me know if we need to commit to one

Author: interestingly, `’` renders when I type in Visual Studio Code, but `'` renders when I type here.

Reviewer: I don't know. What do you think @shcheklein ? I guess since it's a blog each author will have their own style anyway.

Reviewer 2: @jorgeorpinel @andronovhopf don't have any strong opinion on this. Don't think it is that important to be honest.

Reviewer: Agree

approximation of a judicial system. In this corner of the web, citizens post
situations from their lives and Redditors vote to decide if the writer has acted
as The Asshole or not. For example:

![](/uploads/images/2020-02-17/aita_sample.png)

Without bringing any code into the picture, it’s intuitive to think of each new
post as a classification task for the subreddit. Formally, we could think of the

> subreddit as executing a function f such that

Reviewer 2: f -> `f`

Author: I think it might be more proper to italicize f, since that's standard for mathematical notation. In any case it shouldn't be the same formatting as the rest of the sentence

Reviewer 2: yep, italic sounds good!

Reviewer: or symbol ƒ

Author: I tried the symbol but in our font (Brandon Grotesque) an italic f looks a lot closer to the math notation than the symbol. So sticking to italic

> ![](/uploads/images/2020-02-17/aita_formula.png)

Reviewer 2: make is smaller with `=400`?

Author: I'll try that

Author: I like it at 500 px gonna do that

Of course, finding f won’t be trivial. To be frank, I’m not positive how well we
could hope to forecast the rulings of the subreddit. A lot of posts are not easy
for me to decide- like,

![](/uploads/images/2020-02-17/aita_llama.png)

There are also many times I find myself disagreeing with the subreddit’s
verdict. All this is to say, I don’t think it’s obvious how well a given human
would do on the task of predicting whether Redditors find someone an Asshole.
Nor is it clear how well we could ever hope for a machine to do approximating
their judgment.

It seems fun to try, though. It helps that the data is plentiful: because the
subreddit is popular and well-moderated, there’s an especially strong volume of

> high-quality (re: on-topic and appropriately formatted) content being posted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
high-quality content (re: on-topic and appropriately formatted) being posted
```

Reviewer: Also marked resolved but I don't see the change yet, maybe unpushed. Anyway, it reads better with parenthesis after content I think, no?

Reviewer: i.e. it explains "high-quality content" too and this way it doesn't interrupt that phrase.

Reviewer: Also not sure what "re:" means here but that's minor.

Author: was unpushed, should be there now!

Reviewer: Cool, thanks

verdict (e.g., an edit that says, “Update: You’re right, I was the asshole.”).
There were also verdicts that only occurred once (“cheap asshole”, “Crouching
Liar; hidden asshole”, “the pizza is the asshole”), so I restricted the dataset
to posts with standard verdicts. This left ~63K points. Below is a sample of the
resulting dataframe:

![](/uploads/images/2020-02-17/df_sample.png)_Click to enlarge._

The dataset is a snapshot of the subreddit in its current state, but the
subreddit is certain to change over time as new content gets added. In the
interest of having the most comprehensive dataset about being an asshole ever
collected, _I’m planning to update this dataset monthly with new posts._

## How to get the dataset

Since this dataset will be updated regularly, we’re using git and DVC to
package, version, and release it. The data itself is stored in an S3 bucket, and
you can use DVC to import the data to your workspace. If you haven't already
you'll need to [install DVC](https://dvc.org/doc/install); one of the simplest
ways is `pip install dvc`.

Say you have a directory on your local machine where you plan to build some
analysis scripts. Simply run

> ```

Reviewer 2: all CLI blocks should start with "```dvc" to enable syntax highlighting

$ dvc get https://github.com/iterative/aita_dataset \
      aita_clean.csv
```

This will download a .csv dataset into your local directory, corresponding to
the cleaned version. If you wanted the raw dataset, you would substitute
`aita_raw.csv` for `aita_clean.csv`.

Because the dataset is >100 MB, I’ve created a git branch (called “lightweight”)
with 10,000 randomly sampled (cleaned) data points for quick-and-dirty
experimentation that won’t occupy all your laptop’s memory. To download only
this smaller dataset, run

```
$ dvc get --rev lightweight \
      https://github.com/iterative/aita_dataset \
      aita_clean.csv
```

## A quick look at the data

Let’s take a flyover look at the dataset so far. The code to make the following
visuals and results is

> [available on GitHub](https://github.com/andronovhopf/aita_viz_and_classify)

Reviewer 2: . is missing at the sentence end?

Author: yep, fixing that!

First, here’s a frequency plot for how common different verdicts are on the
subreddit. In addition to “Asshole” and “Not the Asshole”, there are two
additional rulings: “Everybody Sucks” and “No Assholes Here”.

> ![](/uploads/images/2020-02-17/freq_plot.svg 'freqplot =1000')

Reviewer 2: what happens if `'freqplot =1000'` is not specified?

Author: hmm actually nothing. earlier i had a pretty small .png file and this needed to be specified or the image showed up tiny, but since I replaced with a .svg this size flag no longer seems necessary.

| :--------------: | :---: |
|     Asshole      |   1   |
|  Everyone Sucks  |   1   |
| Not the Asshole  |   0   |
| No Assholes Here |   0   |

With 5-fold cross-validation, this classifier performed above-chance but
modestly: accuracy was 62.0% +/- 0.005 (95% confidence interval). Curiously, the
only other classifier attempt I could find online
[reported 61% accuracy on held-out data](https://github.com/amr-amr/am-i-the-asshole)
using the much more powerful BERT architecture. Considering that logistic
regression has zero hidden layers, and our features discard sequential
information entirely, we’re doing quite well! Although I can’t be certain, I’m
curious how much the discrepancy comes down to dataset size: the previous effort
with BERT appears to be trained on ~30K posts.

Seeing that logistic regression on word counts doesn’t produce total garbage, I
looked at which words were predictive of class using the
[chi-squared test](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.feature_selection.chi2.html).
The top five informative words were mom, wife, mother, edit, and dad (looks like
Assholes go back to edit their posts). Since familial relationships featured

> prominently, I estimated the log odds of being voted Asshole if your post

Reviewer: Consider explaining or linking "log odds" and other technical terms

Author: good idea, have added some more exposition and a link to a more detailed example from a tutorial i like

opinion of Cats?_

Perhaps we should also consider the fundamental introspective matter of, _am I
maybe being a bit of an asshole?_

I want to share a dataset of collected moral dilemmas shared on Reddit, as well
as the judgments handed down by a jury of Redditors. The wellspring of this data
is the [r/AmItheAsshole](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/) subreddit, one
of the natural wonders of the digital world. In this article, I'll show you
what's in the dataset, how to get it, and some things you can do to move the
frontiers of Asshole research forward.

## What makes an Asshole?

r/AmItheAsshole is a semi-structured online forum that’s the internet’s closest
approximation of a judicial system. In this corner of the web, citizens post
situations from their lives and Redditors vote to decide if the writer has acted
as The Asshole or not. For example:

![](/uploads/images/2020-02-17/aita_sample.png)

Without bringing any code into the picture, it’s intuitive to think of each new
post as a classification task for the subreddit. Formally, we could think of the
subreddit as executing a function _f_ such that

![](/uploads/images/2020-02-17/aita_formula.png '=500')

> Of course, finding f won’t be trivial. To be frank, I’m not positive how well we

Reviewer: `finding _f_`

could hope to forecast the rulings of the subreddit. A lot of posts are not easy

> for me to decide- like,

Reviewer: Not sure about space usage around dash, and maybe it should be `–` em dash? https://www.thepunctuationguide.com/em-dash.html

resulting dataframe:

![](/uploads/images/2020-02-17/df_sample.png)_Click to enlarge._

The dataset is a snapshot of the subreddit in its current state, but the
subreddit is certain to change over time as new content gets added. In the
interest of having the most comprehensive dataset about being an asshole ever
collected, _I’m planning to update this dataset monthly with new posts._

## How to get the dataset

Since this dataset will be updated regularly, we’re using git and DVC to
package, version, and release it. The data itself is stored in an S3 bucket, and
you can use DVC to import the data to your workspace. If you haven't already
you'll need to [install DVC](https://dvc.org/doc/install); one of the simplest
ways is `pip install dvc`.

Say you have a directory on your local machine where you plan to build some
analysis scripts. Simply run

```dvc
$ dvc get https://github.com/iterative/aita_dataset \
      aita_clean.csv
```

This will download a .csv dataset into your local directory, corresponding to
the cleaned version. If you wanted the raw dataset, you would substitute
`aita_raw.csv` for `aita_clean.csv`.

> Because the dataset is >100 MB, I’ve created a git branch (called “lightweight”)

Reviewer: p.s. if the repo used `dvc run` stage files, the code sample further down in this doc (**How to get more data** section),

```console
$ git checkout 0de4fc3
$ dvc checkout
$ python train_classifier.py
```

could be revised to use `dvc repro` as well.

There seems to be a slight anti-parent trend, with Redditors being more likely
to absolve authors who mention a mom or dad. Only mentioning a female romantic
partner (wife/girlfriend) was associated with a greater likelihood of being
voted the Asshole. This surprised me. My unsubstantiated guess about the gender
difference in mentioning romantic partners is that women may be particularly
likely to question themselves when they act assertively in a relationship. If
this were the case, we might find an especially high proportion of
uncontroversial “Not the Asshole” posts from heterosexual women asking about
situations with their male partners.

## How to get more data

As I said earlier, the plan is to grow the dataset over time. I’ve just run a
new scrape for posts from January 1-31, 2020 and am adding them to the public
dataset now. To check for a new release, you can re-run the `dvc get` command
you used to grab the dataset.

If you’re serious about taking on a project such as, say, building a classifier
that beats our state of the art, word-count-based, logistic regression model,
I’d like to recommend a better way to integrate the dataset into your workflow:

> `dvc import`. `dvc import` is like `dvc get`, but it preserves a link to the

Reviewer: To avoid some repetition here, I would rephrase like

`I’d recommend `dvc import` as a better way to integrate the dataset into your workflow. Importing also downloads the data, but it also preserves...`

hosted data set. This is desirable if you might iterate through several
experiments in the search for the right architecture, for example, or think
you’ll want to re-train a model . To get the dataset the first time, you’ll run:

```dvc
$ git init
$ dvc init
$ dvc import https://github.com/iterative/aita_dataset \
      aita_clean.csv
```

> Then, because the dataset in your workspace is linked to our dataset repository,

Reviewer: `Then` -> `Later`?
Just not sure it's clear you're talking about future advantages of importing here, and not something the user can do right now.
p.s. don't worry, Ivan and I had review after review on the import and update command reference examples due to confusions like this one 😆 pretty tricky topic!

you can update it by simply running:

```dvc
$ dvc update aita_clean.csv
```

An additional benefit of codifying the link between your copy of the dataset and

> ours is that you can track the form of the dataset you used at different points

Reviewer: I'd use

`...and ours using `dvc import`, is that...`

Just to be extra clear what we're talking about.

in your project development. You can jump back and forth through the project
history then, not only to previous versions of code but also to versions of

> (specifically, links to) data. For example, you could roll back the state of the

Reviewer: Remove `then` and `(specifically, links to)`?
I found that sentence slightly long and unclear. Had to reread it a few times.

project to before you updated the dataset and re-run your classifier:

```dvc
$ git log --oneline
58e28a5 retrain logistic reg
6a44161 update aita dataset
0de4fc3 try logistic regression classifier
a266f15 get aita dataset
55031b0 first commit

$ git checkout 0de4fc3
$ dvc checkout
$ python train_classifier.py
```

Oh, and one more note: you can always use `dvc get` and `dvc import` to grab an
older version of the dataset using the tags associated with each release. The

> current release is v.20.1 and the original release is v.20.0- the numeric codes

Reviewer: `original release was`?

3. Can you identify sentences or phrases that are most informative about the
   verdict Redditors reach?
4. Do voting patterns systematically differ by topic of discussion?
5. How reliable are verdicts? When a very similar situation is posted multiple
   times, do Redditors usually vote the same way?
6. Is the subreddit’s posting and voting behavior changing over time?
7. Can you formulate any testable hypotheses based on
   [this survey of the subreddit’s demographics](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/comments/dcae07/2019_subscriber_survey_data_dump/?)
8. How often do non-Redditors agree with the subreddit? Under what circumstances
   might they tend to disagree?

I expect that leaning into the particulars of the dataset- thinking about how
the format influences the content, and how a subreddit might select for
participants that don’t fully represent the population at large- will lead to
more interesting questions than, say, aiming to forecast something about
morality in general. To put it another way, the data’s not unbiased- so maybe
try to learn something about those biases.

If you make something with this dataset, please share- perhaps we can form an

> international Asshole research collective, or at least keep each other appraised

Reviewer: 🤣
